Course: Appetizer, Main CourseCuisine: American, Italian, MediterraneanKeyword: asparagus, rhubarb, spring, Vegetarian Pizza Makes: 1 (12-inch) pizza Cost: $10
Ingredients
For the pickled rhubarb
¾ cup thinly sliced rhubarb
½ cup white balsamic vinegar
¼ cup sugar
For the pizza
1 (14- to 16-ounce) ball pizza dough
extra-virgin olive oil
kosher salt
crushed urfa pepper or red pepper flakes
½ bunch asparagus ends snapped off, spears thinly sliced on the bias
handful baby spinach or baby arugula
4 ounces soft goat cheese crumbled
¼ cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon chopped pistachios
Instructions
Preheat the oven to 500°F (if using a baking sheet) or as high as it will go (if using a baking stone/steel; place the stone/steel in the oven before you start preheating).
To make the pickled rhubarb: Place the rhubarb in a medium heatproof bowl or jar. In a small saucepan over medium-high heat, bring the vinegar and sugar to a boil and stir until the sugar is completely dissolved. Pour the hot vinegar mixture over the rhubarb in the bowl and let it sit until the liquid has cooled to room temperature. Drain and set the pickled rhubarb aside. (Or strain the liquid and save it to make vinaigrette, as Stephanie Izard does in her recipe.)
Stretch or roll out your dough to a 12-inch circle, then transfer it to an oiled baking sheet or a floured pizza peel (if using a baking stone/steel).
Brush the dough lightly with olive oil, making sure to get all the way to the edges. Sprinkle with a couple pinches each of salt and urfa or red pepper flakes, then scatter on the asparagus, spinach, and crumbled goat cheese. Drizzle with the cream.
Transfer the pizza to the oven and bake until the crust is golden and the cheese has browned in spots, 8 to 10 minutes on the baking sheet, 6 to 8 minutes on the baking stone/steel.
Remove the pizza from the oven and sprinkle with the chopped pistachios. Wait about 5 minutes before slicing and serving.
Git push test
Luigina making mess
maria making mess
pepper
potato
