Course: Main CourseCuisine: American, Italian, MediterraneanKeyword: maitake mushrooms, mushroom pizza, oyster mushrooms, portobello mushrooms, shiitake mushrooms, Vegetarian Pizza Makes: 1 (12- to 14-inch) pizza Cost: $15
Equipment
Cutting board and knife
Large skillet
Rolling pin (optional)
Large rimmed baking sheet or baking stone/steel
Pizza peel (optional)
Ingredients
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 pound mixed fresh mushrooms (I used shiitake, maitake, portobello, and oyster mushrooms), chopped or sliced (discard thick stems; chop larger mushrooms like portobello into ½-inch pieces)
Fine sea salt
Freshly ground black pepper
⅔ cup super-easy marinara sauce (or your favorite pizza sauce)
4 ounces fresh mozzarella cheese, cut into ½-inch cubes
¼ cup finely shredded parmesan, gruyere, or aged gouda cheese
1 (14- to 16-ounce) ball pizza dough
Extra-virgin olive oil, for finishing (optional)
2 tablespoons chopped fresh chives
Instructions
Preheat the oven to 500°F (if using a baking sheet) or as high as it will go (if using a baking stone/steel; place the stone/steel in the bottom third of the oven before you start preheating). Let the oven preheat for at least 30 minutes. Then, if you’re using a baking stone or steel, switch the oven to Broil on high.
Melt the butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add the mushrooms, a few pinches of salt, and a grind or two of black pepper. Cook until the mushrooms are just tender, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove the skillet from the heat and transfer the mushrooms to a paper towel–lined plate to drain off extra moisture.
Stretch or roll out your dough to a 12- to 14-inch circle, then transfer it to a baking sheet / pizza pan or a lightly floured pizza peel (if using a baking stone/steel).
Spoon the sauce onto the dough and spread it out evenly, leaving a ½-inch border all around. Top with half of the cooked mushrooms, then the mozzarella, and then the other half of the mushrooms. Finish with the parmesan cheese and sprinkle the top with a little salt and pepper.
Transfer the pizza to the oven and bake until the crust is golden and the cheese has browned in spots—8 to 10 minutes on the baking sheet, 6 to 8 minutes on the baking stone/steel.
Remove the pizza from the oven. Drizzle it lightly with olive oil (if using) and season with a pinch of salt, then sprinkle on the chopped fresh chives. Let the pizza cool for a few minutes before slicing and serving.
git pull test
sync test 2
git sync 2
sync Luigina 1
pepper